Add blog. Add initial drafts for first 2 posts (#133)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/blog/2022-01-20-initial-setup.md

---
title: Initial setup and first steps

> description: This blog post describes how to set up Eightshift Boilerplate theme, as well as covers some most common issues that may occur

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This blog post describes how to set up Eightshift Boilerplate theme, and covers some of the most common issues that may occur
```

slug: initial-setup
authors: iobrado
tags: [eightshift, boilerplate, setup]
image: #
hide_table_of_contents: false
---
As it is quite often the case when trying out something new, it can be quite likely that you run into some hiccups. You're trying out our Eightshift Boilerplate, but simply can't get it to work? Worry not, we'll go through the setup and the most common issues that may occur.

<!--truncate-->
If you haven't already, be sure to read our official [Eightshift Docs](https://infinum.github.io/eightshift-docs/docs/welcome).

### Setup

As it is already mentioned in documentation, to create Eightshift theme, navigate to `wp-content/themes` in your project and type the following in the terminal:

`npx create-wp-project`

OK, you went through the process, filled out all required information, but the theme still isn't working. There are few more instructions in terminal what to do next, but you may have skipped them. While the principle **"6 hours of debugging can save you 5 minutes of reading documentation"** is fun, sometimes it's just not worth it. Here's what you should do:

- run `wp theme activate your-theme-name` to activate your new theme

> - next, navigate to `wp-content/themes/your-theme-name`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- navigate to `wp-content/themes/your-theme-name`
```

- try running `wp boilerplate --help` to check if our WP CLI boilerplate commands work
- for easiest initial setup, run `wp boilerplate setup_theme`

> - finally, run `npm start`

Reviewer: `setup_theme` will run the npm for you after the initial setup 😉 

https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/main/src/Cli/CliInitTheme.php#L103

Author: Yeah, it does, I just re-tested the whole process again. Still, I would like to leave that in some form. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
- `npm start` should trigger automatically with the previous command. If it doesn't, you can run it manually to finish the theme build process
```

Reviewer: Jup, sounds good to me 👍🏼

Congratulations, you've successfully set up your Eightshift theme!

> ### Getting to know Eightshift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Getting to know Eightshift dev tools
```

After successfully setting up the theme and going through files, you'll notice this file structure is quite different from traditional WordPress themes and you may think to yourself: "Oh wow, what did I get myself into?"

While it may look scary and confusing at first, once you get used to the structure, you'll see the benefits. More about that will be covered in future posts, where we'll walk you through some basics of developing with Eightshift Boilerplate.

You may want to try a few of our WP CLI commands to add another component, block, or service class. Running `wp boilerplate --help` will give you a list of commands and their short description. If you need even more details about a specific command, you can type, e.g. `wp boilerplate create_post_type --help`

> The final tip for this post is related to troubleshooting. Maybe you tried adding a new class or tried adding a new feature to one of the existing blocks. And now the site has crashed. In tech support the number 1 question is **"Have you tried turning it off and on again?"**. In our case, the number 1 question is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final tip in this post is related to troubleshooting. Maybe you tried to add a new class or a new feature to one of the existing blocks. And now the site has crashed. In tech support, the number 1 question is **"Have you tried turning it off and on again?"**. In our case, the number 1 question is:
```

> **Have you tried `composer dump-autoload` and re-run `npm start`?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Have you tried `composer dump-autoload` and re-running `npm start`?**
```

npx create-wp-project
```

Just follow the instructions and wait for the theme to download.

> ![](/eightshift-docs/img/blog/setup-1.png)

Reviewer: Add some alt text to this image (the text in the [] should be shown as the alt text I think)
